<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-2" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="act-2-prologue" epub:type="prologue z3998:scene">
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Gower</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gower</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Here have you seen a mighty king</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His child, I wis, to incest bring;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A better prince and benign lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That will prove awful both in deed and word.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be quiet then as men should be,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till he hath pass’d necessity.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ll show you those in troubles reign,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Losing a mite, a mountain gain.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The good in conversation,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To whom I give my benison,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is still at Tarsus, where each man</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thinks all is writ he speken can;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And, to remember what he does,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Build his statue to make him glorious:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But tidings to the contrary</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are brought your eyes; what need speak I?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Dumb show.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter at one door <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</b> talking with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cleon</b>; all the train with them. Enter at another door a Gentleman, with a letter to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</b>; <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</b> shows the letter to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cleon</b>; gives the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</b> a reward, and knights him. Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</b> at one door, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cleon</b> at another.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Good Helicane, that stay’d at home,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Not to eat honey like a drone</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From others’ labours; for though he strive</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To killen bad, keep good alive;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And to fulfil his prince’ desire,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sends word of all that haps in Tyre:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How Thaliard came full bent with sin</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And had intent to murder him;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that in Tarsus was not best</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Longer for him to make his rest.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He, doing so, put forth to seas,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where when men been, there’s seldom ease;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For now the wind begins to blow;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thunder above and deeps below</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Make such unquiet, that the ship</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Should house him safe is wreck’d and split;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And he, good prince, having all lost,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By waves from coast to coast is tost:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All perishen of man, of pelf,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ne aught escapen but himself;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till fortune, tired with doing bad,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Threw him ashore, to give him glad:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And here he comes. What shall be next,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pardon old Gower,⁠—this longs the text. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Pentapolis. An open place by the sea-side.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</b>, wet.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Yet cease your ire, you angry stars of heaven!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wind, rain, and thunder, remember, earthly man</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is but a substance that must yield to you;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And I, as fits my nature, do obey you:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Alas, the sea hath cast me on the rocks,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wash’d me from shore to shore, and left me breath</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nothing to think on but ensuing death:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let it suffice the greatness of your powers</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To have bereft a prince of all his fortunes;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And having thrown him from your watery grave,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here to have death in peace is all he’ll crave.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter three <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Fishermen</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>What, ho, Pilch!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Fisherman</td>
							<td>Ha, come and bring away the nets!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>What, Patch-breech, I say!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Fisherman</td>
							<td>What say you, master?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>Look how thou stirrest now! come away, or I’ll fetch thee with a wanion.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Fisherman</td>
							<td>’Faith, master, I am thinking of the poor men that were cast away before us even now.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>Alas, poor souls, it grieved my heart to hear what pitiful cries they made to us to help them, when, well-a-day, we could scarce help ourselves.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Fisherman</td>
							<td>Nay, master, said not I as much when I saw the porpus how he bounced and tumbled? they say they’re half fish, half flesh: a plague on them, they ne’er come but I look to be washed. Master, I marvel how the fishes live in the sea.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>Why, as men do a-land; the great ones eat up the little ones: I can compare our rich misers to nothing so fitly as to a whale; a’ plays and tumbles, driving the poor fry before him, and at last devours them all at a mouthful: such whales have I heard on o’ the land, who never leave gaping till they’ve swallowed the whole parish, church, steeple, bells, and all.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> A pretty moral.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Fisherman</td>
							<td>But, master, if I had been the sexton, I would have been that day in the belfry.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Fisherman</td>
							<td>Why, man?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Fisherman</td>
							<td>Because he should have swallowed me too: and when I had been in his belly, I would have kept such a jangling of the bells, that he should never have left, till he cast bells, steeple, church, and parish up again. But if the good King Simonides were of my mind,⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> Simonides!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Fisherman</td>
							<td>We would purge the land of these drones, that rob the bee of her honey.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> How from the finny subject of the sea</span>
									<br/>
									<span>These fishers tell the infirmities of men;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And from their watery empire recollect</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All that may men approve or men detect!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Peace be at your labour, honest fishermen.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Fisherman</td>
							<td>Honest! good fellow, what’s that? If it be a day fits you, search out of the calendar, and nobody look after it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>May see the sea hath cast upon your coast.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Fisherman</td>
							<td>What a drunken knave was the sea to cast thee in our way!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A man whom both the waters and the wind,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In that vast tennis-court, have made the ball</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For them to play upon, entreats you pity him:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He asks of you, that never used to beg.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>No, friend, cannot you beg? Here’s them in our country Greece gets more with begging than we can do with working.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Fisherman</td>
							<td>Canst thou catch any fishes, then?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>I never practised it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Fisherman</td>
							<td>Nay, then thou wilt starve, sure; for here’s nothing to be got now-a-days, unless thou canst fish for’t.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>What I have been I have forgot to know;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But what I am, want teaches me to think on:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A man throng’d up with cold: my veins are chill,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And have no more of life than may suffice</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To give my tongue that heat to ask your help;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which if you shall refuse, when I am dead,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For that I am a man, pray see me buried.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>Die quoth-a? Now gods forbid! I have a gown here; come, put it on; keep thee warm. Now, afore me, a handsome fellow! Come, thou shalt go home, and we’ll have flesh for holidays, fish for fasting-days, and moreo’er puddings and flap-jacks, and thou shalt be welcome.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>I thank you, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Fisherman</td>
							<td>Hark you, my friend; you said you could not beg.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>I did but crave.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Fisherman</td>
							<td>But crave! Then I’ll turn craver too, and so I shall ’scape whipping.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>Why, are all your beggars whipped, then?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Fisherman</td>
							<td>O, not all, my friend, not all; for if all your beggars were whipped, I would wish no better office than to be beadle. But, master, I’ll go draw up the net. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Fisherman</b>.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> How well this honest mirth becomes their labour!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>Hark you, sir, do you know where ye are?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>Not well.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>Why, I’ll tell you: this is called Pentapolis, and our king the good Simonides.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>The good King Simonides, do you call him?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>Ay, sir; and he deserves so to be called for his peaceable reign and good government.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>He is a happy king, since he gains from his subjects the name of good by his government. How far is his court distant from this shore?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>Marry, sir, half a day’s journey: and I’ll tell you, he hath a fair daughter, and to-morrow is her birth-day; and there are princes and knights come from all parts of the world to just and tourney for her love.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>Were my fortunes equal to my desires, I could wish to make one there.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>O, sir, things must be as they may; and what a man cannot get, he may lawfully deal for⁠—his wife’s soul.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Second</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Fishermen</b>, drawing up a net.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Fisherman</td>
							<td>Help, master, help! here’s a fish hangs in the net, like a poor man’s right in the law; ’twill hardly come out. Ha! bots on’t, ’tis come at last, and ’tis turned to a rusty armour.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>An armour, friends! I pray you, let me see it.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thanks, fortune, yet, that, after all my crosses,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou givest me somewhat to repair myself;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And though it was mine own, part of my heritage,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which my dead father did bequeath to me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With this strict charge, even as he left his life,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>“Keep it, my Pericles; it hath been a shield</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Twixt me and death;”⁠—and pointed to this brace;⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>“For that it saved me, keep it; in like necessity⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The which the gods protect thee from!⁠—may defend thee.”</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It kept where I kept, I so dearly loved it;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till the rough seas, that spare not any man,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Took it in rage, though calm’d have given’t again:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I thank thee for’t: my shipwreck now’s no ill,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since I have here my father’s gift in’s will.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>What mean you, sir?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>To beg of you, kind friends, this coat of worth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For it was sometime target to a king;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I know it by this mark. He loved me dearly,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And for his sake I wish the having of it;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that you’ld guide me to your sovereign’s court,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where with it I may appear a gentleman;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And if that ever my low fortune’s better,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ll pay your bounties; till then rest your debtor.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>Why, wilt thou tourney for the lady?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>I’ll show the virtue I have borne in arms.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Fisherman</td>
							<td>Why, do’e take it, and the gods give thee good on’t!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Fisherman</td>
							<td>Ay, but hark you, my friend; ’twas we that made up this garment through the rough seams of the waters: there are certain condolements, certain vails. I hope, sir, if you thrive, you’ll remember from whence you had it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Believe’t, I will.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By your furtherance I am clothed in steel;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And, spite of all the rapture of the sea,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This jewel holds his building on my arm:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unto thy value I will mount myself</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon a courser, whose delightful steps</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shall make the gazer joy to see him tread.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Only, my friend, I yet am unprovided</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of a pair of bases.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Fisherman</td>
							<td>We’ll sure provide: thou shalt have my best gown to make thee a pair; and I’ll bring thee to the court myself.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Then honour be but a goal to my will,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This day I’ll rise, or else add ill to ill. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-2" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p>The same. A public way or platform leading to the lists. A pavilion by the side of it for the reception of <b epub:type="z3998:persona">King</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Princess</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lords</b>, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lords</b>, and Attendants.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td>Are the knights ready to begin the triumph?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>They are, my liege;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And stay your coming to present themselves.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Return them, we are ready; and our daughter,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In honour of whose birth these triumphs are,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sits here, like beauty’s child, whom nature gat</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For men to see, and seeing wonder at. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit a <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</b>.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>It pleaseth you, my royal father, to express</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My commendations great, whose merit’s less.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>It’s fit it should be so; for princes are</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A model, which heaven makes like to itself:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As jewels lose their glory if neglected,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So princes their renowns if not respected.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>’Tis now your honour, daughter, to explain</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The labour of each knight in his device.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td>Which, to preserve mine honour, I’ll perform.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter a <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Knight</b>; he passes over, and his Squire presents his shield to the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Princess</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td>Who is the first that doth prefer himself?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A knight of Sparta, my renowned father;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And the device he bears upon his shield</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is a black Ethiope reaching at the sun:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The word, “<i xml:lang="la">Lux tua vita mihi.</i>”</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He loves you well that holds his life of you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Knight</b> passes over.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who is the second that presents himself?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A prince of Macedon, my royal father;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And the device he bears upon his shield</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is an arm’d knight that’s conquer’d by a lady;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The motto thus, in Spanish, “<i xml:lang="es">Piu por dulzura que por fuerza.</i>” <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Knight</b> passes over.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td>And what’s the third?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The third of Antioch;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And his device, a wreath of chivalry;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The word, “<i xml:lang="la">Me pompae provexit apex.</i>” <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Fourth Knight</b> passes over.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td>What is the fourth?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A burning torch that’s turned upside down;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The word, “<i xml:lang="la">Quod me alit, me extinguit.</i>”</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Which shows that beauty hath his power and will,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which can as well inflame as it can kill. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Fifth Knight</b> passes over.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The fifth, an hand environed with clouds,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Holding out gold that’s by the touchstone tried;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The motto thus, “<i xml:lang="la">Sic spectanda fides.</i>” <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sixth Knight</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</b>, passes over.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And what’s</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The sixth and last, the which the knight himself</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With such a graceful courtesy deliver’d?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He seems to be a stranger; but his present is</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A wither’d branch, that’s only green at top;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The motto, “<i xml:lang="la">In hac spe vivo.</i>”</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A pretty moral;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From the dejected state wherein he is,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He hopes by you his fortunes yet may flourish.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He had need mean better than his outward show</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Can any way speak in his just commend;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For by his rusty outside he appears</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To have practised more the whipstock than the lance.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He well may be a stranger, for he comes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To an honour’d triumph strangely furnished.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And on set purpose let his armour rust</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Until this day, to scour it in the dust.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Opinion’s but a fool, that makes us scan</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The outward habit by the inward man.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But stay, the knights are coming: we will withdraw</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Into the gallery. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i> <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Great shouts within and all cry “The mean knight!”</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
				</h3>
				<p>The same. A hall of state: a banquet prepared.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lords</b>, Attendants, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Knights</b>, from tilting.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Knights,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To say you’re welcome were superfluous.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To place upon the volume of your deeds,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As in a title-page, your worth in arms,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were more than you expect, or more than’s fit,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since every worth in show commends itself.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Prepare for mirth, for mirth becomes a feast:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You are princes and my guests.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>But you, my knight and guest;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To whom this wreath of victory I give,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And crown you king of this day’s happiness.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>’Tis more by fortune, lady, than by merit.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Call it by what you will, the day is yours;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And here, I hope, is none that envies it.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In framing an artist, art hath thus decreed,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To make some good, but others to exceed;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And you are her labour’d scholar. Come, queen o’ the feast,⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For, daughter, so you are,⁠—here take your place:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Marshal the rest, as they deserve their grace.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knights</td>
							<td>We are honour’d much by good Simonides.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your presence glads our days: honour we love;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For who hates honour hates the gods above.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Marshal</td>
							<td>Sir, yonder is your place.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>Some other is more fit.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Knight</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Contend not, sir; for we are gentlemen</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That neither in our hearts nor outward eyes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Envy the great nor do the low despise.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>You are right courteous knights.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td>Sit, sir, sit.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>By Jove, I wonder, that is king of thoughts,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>These cates resist me, she but thought upon.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>By Juno, that is queen of marriage,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All viands that I eat do seem unsavoury,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wishing him my meat. Sure, he’s a gallant gentleman.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He’s but a country gentleman;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Has done no more than other knights have done;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Has broken a staff or so; so let it pass.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td>To me he seems like diamond to glass.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Yon king’s to me like to my father’s picture,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which tells me in that glory once he was;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Had princes sit, like stars, about his throne,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And he the sun, for them to reverence;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>None that beheld him, but, like lesser lights,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Did vail their crowns to his supremacy:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where now his son’s like a glow-worm in the night,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The which hath fire in darkness, none in light:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whereby I see that Time’s the king of men,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He’s both their parent, and he is their grave,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And gives them what he will, not what they crave.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td>What, are you merry, knights?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knights</td>
							<td>Who can be other in this royal presence?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Here, with a cup that’s stored unto the brim,⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As you do love, fill to your mistress’ lips,⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We drink this health to you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knights</td>
							<td>We thank your grace.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Yet pause awhile:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yon knight doth sit too melancholy,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As if the entertainment in our court</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Had not a show might countervail his worth.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Note it not you, Thaisa?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>What is it</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To me, my father?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, attend, my daughter:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Princes in this should live like gods above,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who freely give to every one that comes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To honour them:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And princes not doin g so are like to gnats,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which make a sound, but kill’d are wonder’d at.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Therefore to make his entrance more sweet,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here, say we drink this standing-bowl of wine to him.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Alas, my father, it befits not me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unto a stranger knight to be so bold:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He may my proffer take for an offence,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since men take women’s gifts for impudence.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>How!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Do as I bid you, or you’ll move me else.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> Now, by the gods, he could not please me better.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And furthermore tell him, we desire to know of him,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of whence he is, his name and parentage.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td>The king my father, sir, has drunk to you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>I thank him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td>Wishing it so much blood unto your life.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>I thank both him and you, and pledge him freely.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And further he desires to know of you,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of whence you are, your name and parentage.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A gentleman of Tyre; my name, Pericles;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My education been in arts and arms;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who, looking for adventures in the world,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was by the rough seas reft of ships and men,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And after shipwreck driven upon this shore.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He thanks your grace; names himself Pericles,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A gentleman of Tyre,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who only by misfortune of the seas</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bereft of ships and men, cast on this shore.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Now, by the gods, I pity his misfortune,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And will awake him from his melancholy.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Come, gentlemen, we sit too long on trifles,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And waste the time, which looks for other revels.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Even in your armours, as you are address’d,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will very well become a soldier’s dance.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I will not have excuse, with saying this</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Loud music is too harsh for ladies’ heads,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since they love men in arms as well as beds. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Knights</b> dance.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>So, this was well ask’d, ’twas so well perform’d.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Come, sir;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here is a lady that wants breathing too:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And I have heard, you knights of Tyre</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are excellent in making ladies trip;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that their measures are as excellent.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>In those that practise them they are, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, that’s as much as you would be denied</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of your fair courtesy. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Knights</b> and Ladies dance.</i> Unclasp, unclasp:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thanks, gentlemen, to all; all have done well,</span>
									<br/>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</b>.</i> But you the best. Pages and lights, to conduct</span>
									<br/>
									<span>These knights unto their several lodgings! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</b>.</i> Yours, sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We have given order to be next our own.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>I am at your grace’s pleasure.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Princes, it is too late to talk of love;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that’s the mark I know you level at:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Therefore each one betake him to his rest;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To-morrow all for speeding do their best. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-4" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Tyre. A room in the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Governor’s</b> house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Helicanus</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Escanes</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helicanus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No, Escanes, know this of me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Antiochus from incest lived not free:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For which, the most high gods not minding longer</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To withhold the vengeance that they had in store,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Due to this heinous capital offence,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Even in the height and pride of all his glory,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When he was seated in a chariot</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of an inestimable value, and his daughter with him,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A fire from heaven came and shrivell’d up</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Their bodies, even to loathing; for they so stunk,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That all those eyes adored them ere their fall</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Scorn now their hand should give them burial.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Escanes</td>
							<td>’Twas very strange.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helicanus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And yet but justice; for though</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This king were great, his greatness was no guard</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To bar heaven’s shaft, but sin had his reward.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Escanes</td>
							<td>’Tis very true.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter two or three <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lords</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>See, not a man in private conference</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or council has respect with him but he.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td>It shall no longer grieve without reproof.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Lord</td>
							<td>And cursed be he that will not second it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td>Follow me, then. Lord Helicane, a word.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helicanus</td>
							<td>With me? and welcome: happy day, my lords.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Know that our griefs are risen to the top,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And now at length they overflow their banks.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helicanus</td>
							<td>Your griefs! for what? wrong not your prince you love.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Wrong not yourself, then, noble Helicane;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But if the prince do live, let us salute him,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or know what ground’s made happy by his breath.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If in the world he live, we’ll seek him out;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If in his grave he rest, we’ll find him there;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And be resolved he lives to govern us,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or dead, give’s cause to mourn his funeral,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And leave us to our free election.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Whose death indeed’s the strongest in our censure:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And knowing this kingdom is without a head,⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Like goodly buildings left without a roof</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Soon fall to ruin,⁠—your noble self,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That best know how to rule and how to reign,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We thus submit unto,⁠—our sovereign.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
							<td>Live, noble Helicane!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helicanus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>For honour’s cause, forbear your suffrages:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If that you love Prince Pericles, forbear.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Take I your wish, I leap into the seas,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where’s hourly trouble for a minute’s ease.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A twelvemonth longer, let me entreat you to</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Forbear the absence of your king;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If in which time expired, he not return,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I shall with aged patience bear your yoke.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But if I cannot win you to this love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Go search like nobles, like noble subjects,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And in your search spend your adventurous worth;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whom if you find, and win unto return,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You shall like diamonds sit about his crown.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>To wisdom he’s a fool that will not yield;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And since Lord Helicane enjoineth us,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We with our travels will endeavour us.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helicanus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Then you love us, we you, and we’ll clasp hands:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When peers thus knit, a kingdom ever stands. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-5" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Pentapolis. A room in the palace.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</b>, reading a letter, at one door: the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Knights</b> meet him.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Knight</td>
							<td>Good morrow to the good Simonides.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Knights, from my daughter this I let you know,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That for this twelvemonth she’ll not undertake</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A married life.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her reason to herself is only known,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which yet from her by no means can I get.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Knight</td>
							<td>May we not get access to her, my lord?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>’Faith, by no means; she has so strictly tied</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her to her chamber, that ’tis impossible.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One twelve moons more she’ll wear Diana’s livery;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This by the eye of Cynthia hath she vow’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And on her virgin honour will not break it.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Knight</td>
							<td>Loath to bid farewell, we take our leaves. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Knights</b>.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>So,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They are well dispatch’d; now to my daughter’s letter:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She tells me here, she’ll wed the stranger knight,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or never more to view nor day nor light.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>’Tis well, mistress; your choice agrees with mine;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I like that well: nay, how absolute she’s in’t,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Not minding whether I dislike or no!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Well, I do commend her choice;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And will no longer have it be delay’d.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Soft! here he comes: I must dissemble it.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>All fortune to the good Simonides!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>To you as much, sir! I am beholding to you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For your sweet music this last night: I do</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Protest my ears were never better fed</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With such delightful pleasing harmony.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>It is your grace’s pleasure to commend;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Not my desert.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td>Sir, you are music’s master.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>The worst of all her scholars, my good lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Let me ask you one thing:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What do you think of my daughter, sir?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>A most virtuous princess.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td>And she is fair too, is she not?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>As a fair day in summer, wondrous fair.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sir, my daughter thinks very well of you;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ay, so well, that you must be her master,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And she will be your scholar: therefore look to it.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>I am unworthy for her school-master.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td>She thinks not so; peruse this writing else.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> What’s here?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A letter, that she loves the knight of Tyre!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>’Tis the king’s subtlety to have my life.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, seek not to entrap me, gracious lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A stranger and distressed gentleman,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That never aim’d so high to love your daughter,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But bent all offices to honour her.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou hast bewitch’d my daughter, and thou art</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A villain.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>By the gods, I have not:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Never did thought of mine levy offence;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor never did my actions yet commence</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A deed might gain her love or your displeasure.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td>Traitor, thou liest.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>Traitor!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td>Ay, traitor.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Even in his throat⁠—unless it be the king⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That calls me traitor, I return the lie.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> Now, by the gods, I do applaud his courage.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My actions are as noble as my thoughts,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That never relish’d of a base descent.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I came unto your court for honour’s cause,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And not to be a rebel to her state;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And he that otherwise accounts of me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This sword shall prove he’s honour’s enemy.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here comes my daughter, she can witness it.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Then, as you are as virtuous as fair,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Resolve your angry father, if my tongue</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Did e’er solicit, or my hand subscribe</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To any syllable that made love to you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why, sir, say if you had,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who takes offence at that would make me glad?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Yea, mistress, are you so peremptory?</span>
									<br/>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> I am glad on’t with all my heart.⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ll tame you; I’ll bring you in subjection.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will you, not having my consent,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bestow your love and your affections</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon a stranger? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">aside</i> who, for aught I know,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>May be, nor can I think the contrary,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As great in blood as I myself.⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Therefore hear you, mistress; either frame</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your will to mine,⁠—and you, sir, hear you,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Either be ruled by me, or I will make you⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Man and wife:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nay, come, your hands and lips must seal it too:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And being join’d, I’ll thus your hopes destroy;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And for a further grief,⁠—God give you joy!⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What, are you both pleased?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thaisa</td>
							<td>Yes, if you love me, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pericles</td>
							<td>Even as my life, or blood that fosters it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td>What, are you both agreed?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
							<td>Yes, if it please your majesty.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Simonides</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>It pleaseth me so well, that I will see you wed;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And then with what haste you can get you to bed. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
