<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="act-1-prologue" epub:type="prologue z3998:scene">
				<p epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter GOWER</p>
				<p>Before the palace of Antioch.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>To sing a song that old was sung,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From ashes ancient Gower is come;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Assuming man's infirmities,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To glad your ear, and please your eyes.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It hath been sung at festivals,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On ember-eves and holy-ales;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And lords and ladies in their lives</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have read it for restoratives:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The purchase is to make men glorious;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Et bonum quo antiquius, eo melius.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If you, born in these latter times,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When wit's more ripe, accept my rhymes.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that to hear an old man sing</span>
									<br/>
									<span>May to your wishes pleasure bring</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I life would wish, and that I might</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Waste it for you, like taper-light.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This Antioch, then, Antiochus the Great</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Built up, this city, for his chiefest seat:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The fairest in all Syria,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I tell you what mine authors say:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This king unto him took a fere,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who died and left a female heir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So buxom, blithe, and full of face,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As heaven had lent her all his grace;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With whom the father liking took,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And her to incest did provoke:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bad child; worse father! to entice his own</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To evil should be done by none:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But custom what they did begin</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was with long use account no sin.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The beauty of this sinful dame</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Made many princes thither frame,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To seek her as a bed-fellow,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In marriage-pleasures play-fellow:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which to prevent he made a law,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To keep her still, and men in awe,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That whoso ask'd her for his wife,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His riddle told not, lost his life:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So for her many a wight did die,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As yon grim looks do testify.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What now ensues, to the judgment of your eye</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I give, my cause who best can justify. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-1-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Antioch. A room in the palace.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter ANTIOCHUS, Prince PERICLES, and followers</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ANTIOCHUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Young prince of Tyre, you have at large received</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The danger of the task you undertake.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I have, Antiochus, and, with a soul</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Embolden'd with the glory of her praise,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Think death no hazard in this enterprise.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ANTIOCHUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Bring in our daughter, clothed like a bride,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For the embracements even of Jove himself;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>At whose conception, till Lucina reign'd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nature this dowry gave, to glad her presence,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The senate-house of planets all did sit,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To knit in her their best perfections.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Music. Enter the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>See where she comes, apparell'd like the spring,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Graces her subjects, and her thoughts the king</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of every virtue gives renown to men!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her face the book of praises, where is read</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nothing but curious pleasures, as from thence</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sorrow were ever razed and testy wrath</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Could never be her mild companion.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You gods that made me man, and sway in love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That have inflamed desire in my breast</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To taste the fruit of yon celestial tree,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or die in the adventure, be my helps,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As I am son and servant to your will,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To compass such a boundless happiness!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ANTIOCHUS</td>
							<td>Prince Pericles,--</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td>That would be son to great Antiochus.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ANTIOCHUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Before thee stands this fair Hesperides,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With golden fruit, but dangerous to be touch'd;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For death-like dragons here affright thee hard:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her face, like heaven, enticeth thee to view</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her countless glory, which desert must gain;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And which, without desert, because thine eye</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Presumes to reach, all thy whole heap must die.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yon sometimes famous princes, like thyself,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Drawn by report, adventurous by desire,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Tell thee, with speechless tongues and semblance pale,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That without covering, save yon field of stars,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here they stand martyrs, slain in Cupid's wars;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And with dead cheeks advise thee to desist</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For going on death's net, whom none resist.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Antiochus, I thank thee, who hath taught</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My frail mortality to know itself,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And by those fearful objects to prepare</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This body, like to them, to what I must;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For death remember'd should be like a mirror,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who tells us life's but breath, to trust it error.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll make my will then, and, as sick men do</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who know the world, see heaven, but, feeling woe,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Gripe not at earthly joys as erst they did;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So I bequeath a happy peace to you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And all good men, as every prince should do;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My riches to the earth from whence they came;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But my unspotted fire of love to you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thus ready for the way of life or death,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I wait the sharpest blow, Antiochus.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ANTIOCHUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Scorning advice, read the conclusion then:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which read and not expounded, 'tis decreed,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As these before thee thou thyself shalt bleed.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daughter</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Of all say'd yet, mayst thou prove prosperous!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of all say'd yet, I wish thee happiness!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Like a bold champion, I assume the lists,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor ask advice of any other thought</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But faithfulness and courage. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He reads the riddle</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>I am no viper, yet I feed</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On mother's flesh which did me breed.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I sought a husband, in which labour</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I found that kindness in a father:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He's father, son, and husband mild;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I mother, wife, and yet his child.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How they may be, and yet in two,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As you will live, resolve it you.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sharp physic is the last: but, O you powers</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That give heaven countless eyes to view men's acts,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why cloud they not their sights perpetually,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If this be true, which makes me pale to read it?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fair glass of light, I loved you, and could still, <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Takes hold of the hand of the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were not this glorious casket stored with ill:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But I must tell you, now my thoughts revolt</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For he's no man on whom perfections wait</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That, knowing sin within, will touch the gate.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You are a fair viol, and your sense the strings;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who, finger'd to make man his lawful music,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Would draw heaven down, and all the gods, to hearken:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But being play'd upon before your time,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hell only danceth at so harsh a chime.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Good sooth, I care not for you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ANTIOCHUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Prince Pericles, touch not, upon thy life.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For that's an article within our law,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As dangerous as the rest. Your time's expired:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Either expound now, or receive your sentence.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Great king,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Few love to hear the sins they love to act;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Twould braid yourself too near for me to tell it.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who has a book of all that monarchs do,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He's more secure to keep it shut than shown:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For vice repeated is like the wandering wind.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Blows dust in other's eyes, to spread itself;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And yet the end of all is bought thus dear,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The breath is gone, and the sore eyes see clear:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To stop the air would hurt them. The blind mole casts</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Copp'd hills towards heaven, to tell the earth is throng'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By man's oppression; and the poor worm doth die for't.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Kings are earth's gods; in vice their law's their will;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And if Jove stray, who dares say Jove doth ill?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It is enough you know; and it is fit,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What being more known grows worse, to smother it.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All love the womb that their first being bred,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then give my tongue like leave to love my head.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ANTIOCHUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside</i> Heaven, that I had thy head! he has found the meaning:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But I will gloze with him.--Young prince of Tyre,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Though by the tenor of our strict edict,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your exposition misinterpreting,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We might proceed to cancel of your days;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet hope, succeeding from so fair a tree</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As your fair self, doth tune us otherwise:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Forty days longer we do respite you;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If by which time our secret be undone,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This mercy shows we'll joy in such a son:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And until then your entertain shall be</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As doth befit our honour and your worth. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt all but PERICLES</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>How courtesy would seem to cover sin,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When what is done is like an hypocrite,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The which is good in nothing but in sight!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If it be true that I interpret false,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then were it certain you were not so bad</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As with foul incest to abuse your soul;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where now you're both a father and a son,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By your untimely claspings with your child,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which pleasure fits an husband, not a father;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And she an eater of her mother's flesh,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By the defiling of her parent's bed;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And both like serpents are, who though they feed</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On sweetest flowers, yet they poison breed.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Antioch, farewell! for wisdom sees, those men</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Blush not in actions blacker than the night,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will shun no course to keep them from the light.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One sin, I know, another doth provoke;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Murder's as near to lust as flame to smoke:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Poison and treason are the hands of sin,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ay, and the targets, to put off the shame:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then, lest my lie be cropp'd to keep you clear,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By flight I'll shun the danger which I fear. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter ANTIOCHUS</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ANTIOCHUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He hath found the meaning, for which we mean</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To have his head.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He must not live to trumpet forth my infamy,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor tell the world Antiochus doth sin</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In such a loathed manner;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And therefore instantly this prince must die:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For by his fall my honour must keep high.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who attends us there?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter THALIARD</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">THALIARD</td>
							<td>Doth your highness call?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ANTIOCHUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thaliard,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You are of our chamber, and our mind partakes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her private actions to your secrecy;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And for your faithfulness we will advance you.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thaliard, behold, here's poison, and here's gold;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We hate the prince of Tyre, and thou must kill him:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It fits thee not to ask the reason why,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Because we bid it. Say, is it done?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">THALIARD</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis done.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ANTIOCHUS</td>
							<td>Enough.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter a Messenger</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>Let your breath cool yourself, telling your haste.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</td>
							<td>My lord, prince Pericles is fled. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ANTIOCHUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>As thou</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wilt live, fly after: and like an arrow shot</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From a well-experienced archer hits the mark</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His eye doth level at, so thou ne'er return</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unless thou say 'Prince Pericles is dead.'</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">THALIARD</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If I can get him within my pistol's length,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll make him sure enough: so, farewell to your highness.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ANTIOCHUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thaliard, adieu! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit THALIARD</i> Till Pericles be dead,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My heart can lend no succor to my head. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-1-2" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Tyre. A room in the palace.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter PERICLES</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To Lords without</i> Let none disturb us.--Why should this change of thoughts,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The sad companion, dull-eyed melancholy,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be my so used a guest as not an hour,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In the day's glorious walk, or peaceful night,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The tomb where grief should sleep, can breed me quiet?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here pleasures court mine eyes, and mine eyes shun them,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And danger, which I fear'd, is at Antioch,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose aim seems far too short to hit me here:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet neither pleasure's art can joy my spirits,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor yet the other's distance comfort me.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then it is thus: the passions of the mind,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That have their first conception by mis-dread,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have after-nourishment and life by care;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And what was first but fear what might be done,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Grows elder now and cares it be not done.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And so with me: the great Antiochus,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Gainst whom I am too little to contend,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since he's so great can make his will his act,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will think me speaking, though I swear to silence;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor boots it me to say I honour him.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If he suspect I may dishonour him:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And what may make him blush in being known,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He'll stop the course by which it might be known;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With hostile forces he'll o'erspread the land,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And with the ostent of war will look so huge,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Amazement shall drive courage from the state;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our men be vanquish'd ere they do resist,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And subjects punish'd that ne'er thought offence:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which care of them, not pity of myself,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who am no more but as the tops of trees,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which fence the roots they grow by and defend them,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Makes both my body pine and soul to languish,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And punish that before that he would punish.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter HELICANUS, with other Lords</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td>Joy and all comfort in your sacred breast!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And keep your mind, till you return to us,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Peaceful and comfortable!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Peace, peace, and give experience tongue.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They do abuse the king that flatter him:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For flattery is the bellows blows up sin;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The thing which is flatter'd, but a spark,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To which that blast gives heat and stronger glowing;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whereas reproof, obedient and in order,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fits kings, as they are men, for they may err.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When Signior Sooth here does proclaim a peace,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He flatters you, makes war upon your life.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Prince, pardon me, or strike me, if you please;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I cannot be much lower than my knees.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>All leave us else; but let your cares o'erlook</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What shipping and what lading's in our haven,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And then return to us. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt Lords</i> Helicanus, thou</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hast moved us: what seest thou in our looks?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td>An angry brow, dread lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If there be such a dart in princes' frowns,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How durst thy tongue move anger to our face?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>How dare the plants look up to heaven, from whence</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They have their nourishment?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou know'st I have power</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To take thy life from thee.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kneeling</i>
									</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I have ground the axe myself;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Do you but strike the blow.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Rise, prithee, rise.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sit down: thou art no flatterer:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I thank thee for it; and heaven forbid</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That kings should let their ears hear their faults hid!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fit counsellor and servant for a prince,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who by thy wisdom makest a prince thy servant,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What wouldst thou have me do?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>To bear with patience</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such griefs as you yourself do lay upon yourself.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou speak'st like a physician, Helicanus,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That minister'st a potion unto me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That thou wouldst tremble to receive thyself.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Attend me, then: I went to Antioch,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where as thou know'st, against the face of death,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I sought the purchase of a glorious beauty.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From whence an issue I might propagate,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are arms to princes, and bring joys to subjects.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her face was to mine eye beyond all wonder;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The rest--hark in thine ear--as black as incest:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which by my knowledge found, the sinful father</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Seem'd not to strike, but smooth: but thou know'st this,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis time to fear when tyrants seem to kiss.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such fear so grew in me, I hither fled,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Under the covering of a careful night,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who seem'd my good protector; and, being here,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bethought me what was past, what might succeed.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I knew him tyrannous; and tyrants' fears</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Decrease not, but grow faster than the years:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And should he doubt it, as no doubt he doth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I should open to the listening air</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How many worthy princes' bloods were shed,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To keep his bed of blackness unlaid ope,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To lop that doubt, he'll fill this land with arms,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And make pretence of wrong that I have done him:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When all, for mine, if I may call offence,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must feel war's blow, who spares not innocence:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which love to all, of which thyself art one,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who now reprovest me for it,--</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td>Alas, sir!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Drew sleep out of mine eyes, blood from my cheeks,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Musings into my mind, with thousand doubts</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How I might stop this tempest ere it came;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And finding little comfort to relieve them,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I thought it princely charity to grieve them.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Well, my lord, since you have given me leave to speak.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Freely will I speak. Antiochus you fear,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And justly too, I think, you fear the tyrant,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who either by public war or private treason</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will take away your life.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Therefore, my lord, go travel for a while,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till that his rage and anger be forgot,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or till the Destinies do cut his thread of life.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your rule direct to any; if to me.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Day serves not light more faithful than I'll be.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I do not doubt thy faith;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But should he wrong my liberties in my absence?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>We'll mingle our bloods together in the earth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From whence we had our being and our birth.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Tyre, I now look from thee then, and to Tarsus</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Intend my travel, where I'll hear from thee;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And by whose letters I'll dispose myself.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The care I had and have of subjects' good</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On thee I lay whose wisdom's strength can bear it.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll take thy word for faith, not ask thine oath:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who shuns not to break one will sure crack both:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But in our orbs we'll live so round and safe,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That time of both this truth shall ne'er convince,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou show'dst a subject's shine, I a true prince. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-1-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Tyre. An ante-chamber in the palace.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter THALIARD</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">THALIARD</td>
							<td>So, this is Tyre, and this the court. Here must I kill King Pericles; and if I do it not, I am sure to be hanged at home: 'tis dangerous. Well, I perceive he was a wise fellow, and had good discretion, that, being bid to ask what he would of the king, desired he might know none of his secrets: now do I see he had some reason for't; for if a king bid a man be a villain, he's bound by the indenture of his oath to be one! Hush! here come the lords of Tyre.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter HELICANUS and ESCANES, with other Lords of Tyre</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>You shall not need, my fellow peers of Tyre,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Further to question me of your king's departure:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His seal'd commission, left in trust with me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Doth speak sufficiently he's gone to travel.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">THALIARD</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside</i> How! the king gone!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If further yet you will be satisfied,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why, as it were unlicensed of your loves,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He would depart, I'll give some light unto you.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Being at Antioch--</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">THALIARD</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside</i> What from Antioch?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Royal Antiochus--on what cause I know not--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Took some displeasure at him; at least he judged so:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And doubting lest that he had err'd or sinn'd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To show his sorrow, he'ld correct himself;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So puts himself unto the shipman's toil,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With whom each minute threatens life or death.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">THALIARD</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside</i> Well, I perceive</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I shall not be hang'd now, although I would;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But since he's gone, the king's seas must please:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He 'scaped the land, to perish at the sea.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll present myself. Peace to the lords of Tyre!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td>Lord Thaliard from Antiochus is welcome.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">THALIARD</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>From him I come</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With message unto princely Pericles;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But since my landing I have understood</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your lord has betook himself to unknown travels,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My message must return from whence it came.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HELICANUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>We have no reason to desire it,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Commended to our master, not to us:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet, ere you shall depart, this we desire,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As friends to Antioch, we may feast in Tyre. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-1-4" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Tarsus. A room in the Governor's house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter CLEON, the governor of Tarsus, with DIONYZA, and others</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My Dionyza, shall we rest us here,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And by relating tales of others' griefs,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>See if 'twill teach us to forget our own?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">DIONYZA</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>That were to blow at fire in hope to quench it;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For who digs hills because they do aspire</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Throws down one mountain to cast up a higher.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O my distressed lord, even such our griefs are;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here they're but felt, and seen with mischief's eyes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But like to groves, being topp'd, they higher rise.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O Dionyza,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who wanteth food, and will not say he wants it,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or can conceal his hunger till he famish?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our tongues and sorrows do sound deep</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our woes into the air; our eyes do weep,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till tongues fetch breath that may proclaim them louder;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That, if heaven slumber while their creatures want,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They may awake their helps to comfort them.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll then discourse our woes, felt several years,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And wanting breath to speak help me with tears.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">DIONYZA</td>
							<td>I'll do my best, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>This Tarsus, o'er which I have the government,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A city on whom plenty held full hand,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For riches strew'd herself even in the streets;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose towers bore heads so high they kiss'd the clouds,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And strangers ne'er beheld but wondered at;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose men and dames so jetted and adorn'd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Like one another's glass to trim them by:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Their tables were stored full, to glad the sight,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And not so much to feed on as delight;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All poverty was scorn'd, and pride so great,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The name of help grew odious to repeat.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">DIONYZA</td>
							<td>O, 'tis too true.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>But see what heaven can do! By this our change,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>These mouths, who but of late, earth, sea, and air,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were all too little to content and please,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Although they gave their creatures in abundance,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As houses are defiled for want of use,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They are now starved for want of exercise:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Those palates who, not yet two summers younger,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must have inventions to delight the taste,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Would now be glad of bread, and beg for it:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Those mothers who, to nousle up their babes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thought nought too curious, are ready now</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To eat those little darlings whom they loved.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So sharp are hunger's teeth, that man and wife</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Draw lots who first shall die to lengthen life:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here stands a lord, and there a lady weeping;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here many sink, yet those which see them fall</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have scarce strength left to give them burial.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is not this true?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">DIONYZA</td>
							<td>Our cheeks and hollow eyes do witness it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, let those cities that of plenty's cup</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And her prosperities so largely taste,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With their superfluous riots, hear these tears!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The misery of Tarsus may be theirs.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter a Lord</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td>Where's the lord governor?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Here.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Speak out thy sorrows which thou bring'st in haste,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For comfort is too far for us to expect.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>We have descried, upon our neighbouring shore,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A portly sail of ships make hitherward.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I thought as much.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One sorrow never comes but brings an heir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That may succeed as his inheritor;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And so in ours: some neighbouring nation,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Taking advantage of our misery,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath stuff'd these hollow vessels with their power,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To beat us down, the which are down already;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And make a conquest of unhappy me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whereas no glory's got to overcome.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>That's the least fear; for, by the semblance</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of their white flags display'd, they bring us peace,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And come to us as favourers, not as foes.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou speak'st like him's untutor'd to repeat:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who makes the fairest show means most deceit.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But bring they what they will and what they can,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What need we fear?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The ground's the lowest, and we are half way there.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Go tell their general we attend him here,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To know for what he comes, and whence he comes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And what he craves.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td>I go, my lord. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Welcome is peace, if he on peace consist;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If wars, we are unable to resist.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter PERICLES with Attendants</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Lord governor, for so we hear you are,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let not our ships and number of our men</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be like a beacon fired to amaze your eyes.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We have heard your miseries as far as Tyre,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And seen the desolation of your streets:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor come we to add sorrow to your tears,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But to relieve them of their heavy load;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And these our ships, you happily may think</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are like the Trojan horse was stuff'd within</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With bloody veins, expecting overthrow,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are stored with corn to make your needy bread,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And give them life whom hunger starved half dead.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The gods of Greece protect you!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And we'll pray for you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Arise, I pray you, rise:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We do not look for reverence, but to love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And harbourage for ourself, our ships, and men.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The which when any shall not gratify,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or pay you with unthankfulness in thought,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be it our wives, our children, or ourselves,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The curse of heaven and men succeed their evils!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till when,--the which I hope shall ne'er be seen,--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your grace is welcome to our town and us.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Which welcome we'll accept; feast here awhile,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Until our stars that frown lend us a smile. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
