<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="act-3-prologue" epub:type="prologue z3998:scene">
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter GOWER</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Now sleep y-slaked hath the rout;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No din but snores the house about,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Made louder by the o'er-fed breast</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of this most pompous marriage-feast.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The cat, with eyne of burning coal,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Now crouches fore the mouse's hole;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And crickets sing at the oven's mouth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>E'er the blither for their drouth.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hymen hath brought the bride to bed.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where, by the loss of maidenhead,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A babe is moulded. Be attent,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And time that is so briefly spent</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With your fine fancies quaintly eche:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What's dumb in show I'll plain with speech.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">DUMB SHOW.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter, PERICLES and SIMONIDES at one door, with Attendants; a Messenger meets them, kneels, and gives PERICLES a letter: PERICLES shows it SIMONIDES; the Lords kneel to him. Then enter THAISA with child, with LYCHORIDA a nurse. The KING shows her the letter; she rejoices: she and PERICLES takes leave of her father, and depart with LYCHORIDA and their Attendants. Then exeunt SIMONIDES and the rest</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>By many a dern and painful perch</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of Pericles the careful search,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By the four opposing coigns</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which the world together joins,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is made with all due diligence</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That horse and sail and high expense</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Can stead the quest. At last from Tyre,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fame answering the most strange inquire,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the court of King Simonides</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are letters brought, the tenor these:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Antiochus and his daughter dead;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The men of Tyrus on the head</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of Helicanus would set on</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The crown of Tyre, but he will none:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The mutiny he there hastes t' oppress;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Says to 'em, if King Pericles</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Come not home in twice six moons,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He, obedient to their dooms,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will take the crown. The sum of this,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Brought hither to Pentapolis,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Y-ravished the regions round,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And every one with claps can sound,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Our heir-apparent is a king!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who dream'd, who thought of such a thing?'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Brief, he must hence depart to Tyre:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His queen with child makes her desire--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which who shall cross?--along to go:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Omit we all their dole and woe:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lychorida, her nurse, she takes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And so to sea. Their vessel shakes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On Neptune's billow; half the flood</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath their keel cut: but fortune's mood</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Varies again; the grisly north</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Disgorges such a tempest forth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That, as a duck for life that dives,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So up and down the poor ship drives:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The lady shrieks, and well-a-near</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Does fall in travail with her fear:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And what ensues in this fell storm</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shall for itself itself perform.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I nill relate, action may</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Conveniently the rest convey;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which might not what by me is told.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In your imagination hold</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This stage the ship, upon whose deck</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The sea-tost Pericles appears to speak. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-3-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter PERICLES, on shipboard</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou god of this great vast, rebuke these surges,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which wash both heaven and hell; and thou, that hast</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon the winds command, bind them in brass,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Having call'd them from the deep! O, still</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy deafening, dreadful thunders; gently quench</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy nimble, sulphurous flashes! O, how, Lychorida,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How does my queen? Thou stormest venomously;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wilt thou spit all thyself? The seaman's whistle</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is as a whisper in the ears of death,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unheard. Lychorida!--Lucina, O</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Divinest patroness, and midwife gentle</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To those that cry by night, convey thy deity</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Aboard our dancing boat; make swift the pangs</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of my queen's travails!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter LYCHORIDA, with an Infant</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>Now, Lychorida!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LYCHORIDA</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Here is a thing too young for such a place,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who, if it had conceit, would die, as I</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Am like to do: take in your arms this piece</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of your dead queen.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td>How, how, Lychorida!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LYCHORIDA</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Patience, good sir; do not assist the storm.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here's all that is left living of your queen,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A little daughter: for the sake of it,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be manly, and take comfort.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O you gods!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why do you make us love your goodly gifts,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And snatch them straight away? We here below</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Recall not what we give, and therein may</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Use honour with you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LYCHORIDA</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Patience, good sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Even for this charge.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Now, mild may be thy life!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For a more blustrous birth had never babe:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Quiet and gentle thy conditions! for</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou art the rudeliest welcome to this world</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That ever was prince's child. Happy what follows!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou hast as chiding a nativity</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As fire, air, water, earth, and heaven can make,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To herald thee from the womb: even at the first</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy loss is more than can thy portage quit,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With all thou canst find here. Now, the good gods</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Throw their best eyes upon't!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter two Sailors</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Sailor</td>
							<td>What courage, sir? God save you!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Courage enough: I do not fear the flaw;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It hath done to me the worst. Yet, for the love</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of this poor infant, this fresh-new sea-farer,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I would it would be quiet.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Sailor</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Slack the bolins there! Thou wilt not, wilt thou?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Blow, and split thyself.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Sailor</td>
							<td>But sea-room, an the brine and cloudy billow kiss the moon, I care not.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Sailor</td>
							<td>Sir, your queen must overboard: the sea works high, the wind is loud, and will not lie till the ship be cleared of the dead.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td>That's your superstition.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Sailor</td>
							<td>Pardon us, sir; with us at sea it hath been still observed: and we are strong in custom. Therefore briefly yield her; for she must overboard straight.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td>As you think meet. Most wretched queen!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LYCHORIDA</td>
							<td>Here she lies, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A terrible childbed hast thou had, my dear;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No light, no fire: the unfriendly elements</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Forgot thee utterly: nor have I time</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To give thee hallow'd to thy grave, but straight</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must cast thee, scarcely coffin'd, in the ooze;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where, for a monument upon thy bones,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And e'er-remaining lamps, the belching whale</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And humming water must o'erwhelm thy corpse,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lying with simple shells. O Lychorida,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bid Nestor bring me spices, ink and paper,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My casket and my jewels; and bid Nicander</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bring me the satin coffer: lay the babe</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon the pillow: hie thee, whiles I say</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A priestly farewell to her: suddenly, woman. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit LYCHORIDA</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Sailor</td>
							<td>Sir, we have a chest beneath the hatches, caulked and bitumed ready.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td>I thank thee. Mariner, say what coast is this?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Sailor</td>
							<td>We are near Tarsus.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thither, gentle mariner.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Alter thy course for Tyre. When canst thou reach it?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Sailor</td>
							<td>By break of day, if the wind cease.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, make for Tarsus!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There will I visit Cleon, for the babe</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Cannot hold out to Tyrus: there I'll leave it</span>
									<br/>
									<span>At careful nursing. Go thy ways, good mariner:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll bring the body presently. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-3-2" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Ephesus. A room in CERIMON's house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter CERIMON, with a Servant, and some Persons who have been shipwrecked</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td>Philemon, ho!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter PHILEMON</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PHILEMON</td>
							<td>Doth my lord call?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Get fire and meat for these poor men:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'T has been a turbulent and stormy night.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I have been in many; but such a night as this,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till now, I ne'er endured.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your master will be dead ere you return;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There's nothing can be minister'd to nature</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That can recover him. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To PHILEMON</i> Give this to the 'pothecary,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And tell me how it works. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt all but CERIMON</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter two Gentlemen</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gentleman</td>
							<td>Good morrow.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Gentleman</td>
							<td>Good morrow to your lordship.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Gentlemen,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why do you stir so early?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gentleman</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our lodgings, standing bleak upon the sea,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shook as the earth did quake;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The very principals did seem to rend,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And all-to topple: pure surprise and fear</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Made me to quit the house.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Gentleman</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>That is the cause we trouble you so early;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis not our husbandry.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td>O, you say well.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gentleman</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>But I much marvel that your lordship, having</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rich tire about you, should at these early hours</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shake off the golden slumber of repose.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis most strange,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nature should be so conversant with pain,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Being thereto not compell'd.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I hold it ever,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Virtue and cunning were endowments greater</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than nobleness and riches: careless heirs</span>
									<br/>
									<span>May the two latter darken and expend;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But immortality attends the former.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Making a man a god. 'Tis known, I ever</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have studied physic, through which secret art,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By turning o'er authorities, I have,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Together with my practise, made familiar</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To me and to my aid the blest infusions</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That dwell in vegetives, in metals, stones;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And I can speak of the disturbances</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That nature works, and of her cures; which doth give me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A more content in course of true delight</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than to be thirsty after tottering honour,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or tie my treasure up in silken bags,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To please the fool and death.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Gentleman</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your honour has through Ephesus pour'd forth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your charity, and hundreds call themselves</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your creatures, who by you have been restored:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And not your knowledge, your personal pain, but even</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your purse, still open, hath built Lord Cerimon</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such strong renown as time shall ne'er decay.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter two or three Servants with a chest</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
							<td>So; lift there.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td>What is that?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sir, even now</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Did the sea toss upon our shore this chest:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis of some wreck.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td>Set 't down, let's look upon't.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Gentleman</td>
							<td>'Tis like a coffin, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Whate'er it be,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis wondrous heavy. Wrench it open straight:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If the sea's stomach be o'ercharged with gold,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis a good constraint of fortune it belches upon us.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Gentleman</td>
							<td>'Tis so, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>How close 'tis caulk'd and bitumed!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Did the sea cast it up?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I never saw so huge a billow, sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As toss'd it upon shore.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Wrench it open;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Soft! it smells most sweetly in my sense.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Gentleman</td>
							<td>A delicate odour.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>As ever hit my nostril. So, up with it.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O you most potent gods! what's here? a corse!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gentleman</td>
							<td>Most strange!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Shrouded in cloth of state; balm'd and entreasured</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With full bags of spices! A passport too!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Apollo, perfect me in the characters! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reads from a scroll</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Here I give to understand,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If e'er this coffin drive a-land,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I, King Pericles, have lost</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This queen, worth all our mundane cost.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who finds her, give her burying;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She was the daughter of a king:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Besides this treasure for a fee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The gods requite his charity!'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If thou livest, Pericles, thou hast a heart</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That even cracks for woe! This chanced tonight.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Gentleman</td>
							<td>Most likely, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Nay, certainly to-night;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For look how fresh she looks! They were too rough</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That threw her in the sea. Make a fire within:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fetch hither all my boxes in my closet. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit a Servant</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Death may usurp on nature many hours,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And yet the fire of life kindle again</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The o'erpress'd spirits. I heard of an Egyptian</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That had nine hours lien dead,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who was by good appliance recovered.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter a Servant, with boxes, napkins, and fire</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Well said, well said; the fire and cloths.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The rough and woeful music that we have,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Cause it to sound, beseech you.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The viol once more: how thou stirr'st, thou block!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The music there!--I pray you, give her air.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Gentlemen.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This queen will live: nature awakes; a warmth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Breathes out of her: she hath not been entranced</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Above five hours: see how she gins to blow</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Into life's flower again!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gentleman</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The heavens,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Through you, increase our wonder and set up</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your fame forever.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>She is alive; behold,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her eyelids, cases to those heavenly jewels</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which Pericles hath lost,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Begin to part their fringes of bright gold;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The diamonds of a most praised water</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Do appear, to make the world twice rich. Live,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And make us weep to hear your fate, fair creature,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rare as you seem to be. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She moves</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">THAISA</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O dear Diana,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where am I? Where's my lord? What world is this?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Gentleman</td>
							<td>Is not this strange?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gentleman</td>
							<td>Most rare.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Hush, my gentle neighbours!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lend me your hands; to the next chamber bear her.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Get linen: now this matter must be look'd to,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For her relapse is mortal. Come, come;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And AEsculapius guide us! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt, carrying her away</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-3-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Tarsus. A room in CLEON's house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter PERICLES, CLEON, DIONYZA, and LYCHORIDA with MARINA in her arms</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Most honour'd Cleon, I must needs be gone;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My twelve months are expired, and Tyrus stands</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In a litigious peace. You, and your lady,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Take from my heart all thankfulness! The gods</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Make up the rest upon you!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your shafts of fortune, though they hurt you mortally,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet glance full wanderingly on us.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">DIONYZA</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O your sweet queen!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That the strict fates had pleased you had brought her hither,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To have bless'd mine eyes with her!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>We cannot but obey</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The powers above us. Could I rage and roar</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As doth the sea she lies in, yet the end</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must be as 'tis. My gentle babe Marina, whom,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For she was born at sea, I have named so, here</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I charge your charity withal, leaving her</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The infant of your care; beseeching you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To give her princely training, that she may be</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Manner'd as she is born.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Fear not, my lord, but think</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your grace, that fed my country with your corn,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For which the people's prayers still fall upon you,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must in your child be thought on. If neglection</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Should therein make me vile, the common body,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By you relieved, would force me to my duty:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But if to that my nature need a spur,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The gods revenge it upon me and mine,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the end of generation!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I believe you;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your honour and your goodness teach me to't,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Without your vows. Till she be married, madam,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By bright Diana, whom we honour, all</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unscissor'd shall this hair of mine remain,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Though I show ill in't. So I take my leave.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Good madam, make me blessed in your care</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In bringing up my child.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">DIONYZA</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I have one myself,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who shall not be more dear to my respect</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than yours, my lord.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td>Madam, my thanks and prayers.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CLEON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>We'll bring your grace e'en to the edge o' the shore,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then give you up to the mask'd Neptune and</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The gentlest winds of heaven.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PERICLES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I will embrace</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your offer. Come, dearest madam. O, no tears,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lychorida, no tears:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Look to your little mistress, on whose grace</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You may depend hereafter. Come, my lord. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-3-4" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Ephesus. A room in CERIMON's house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter CERIMON and THAISA</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Madam, this letter, and some certain jewels,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lay with you in your coffer: which are now</span>
									<br/>
									<span>At your command. Know you the character?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">THAISA</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>It is my lord's.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I was shipp'd at sea, I well remember,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Even on my eaning time; but whether there</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Deliver'd, by the holy gods,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I cannot rightly say. But since King Pericles,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My wedded lord, I ne'er shall see again,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A vestal livery will I take me to,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And never more have joy.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CERIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Madam, if this you purpose as ye speak,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Diana's temple is not distant far,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where you may abide till your date expire.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Moreover, if you please, a niece of mine</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shall there attend you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">THAISA</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My recompense is thanks, that's all;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet my good will is great, though the gift small. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
